Initial draft of RFC-0322 (#315)
tari-project/tari: RFC/src/RFC-0322_VNRegistration.md

| h     | The block height of the block in which the registration transaction was mined |
| kh    | The hash of the registration transaction's kernel                             |

Base Nodes SHOULD maintain a cached list of Validator Nodes and MUST return the Node ID in response to a
`get_validator_node_id` request.

### Validator node registration

A validator node MUST register on the base layer before it can join any DAN [committee]s. Registration happens by virtue
of a Validator Node Registration [transaction].

VN registrations are valid for the [Registration Term].

The registration term is set at SIX months.

A VN registration transaction is a special transaction.

* The transaction MUST have EXACTLY ONE UTXO with the `VN_Deposit` flag set.
* This UTXO MUST also:
  * Set a time lock for AT LEAST the [Registration Term] (or equivalent block periods)
  * Provide the _value_ of the UTXO in the signature metadata
  * Provide the _public key_ for the spending key for the output in the signature metadata
* The value of this output MUST be equal or greater than the [Registration Deposit].
* The UTXO MUST store:

>   * The value of the VN deposit UTXO in as a u64.

Reviewer: Remove the "as"

  * The value of the _public key_ for the spending key for the output as 32 bytes in little endian order.
* The `KernelFeatures` bit flag MUST have the `VN_Registration` flag set.
* The kernel MUST also store the VN's DHT public key as 32 bytes in little endian order.

### Validator node registration renewal

If a VN owner does not _renew_ the registration before the [Registration Term] has expired, the registration will lapse
and the VN will no longer be allowed to participate in any [committee]s.

The number of consecutive renewals MAY increase the VN's reputation score.

A VN may only renew a registration in the TWO WEEK period prior to the current term expiring.

A VN renewal transaction is a special transaction:

* The transaction MUST have EXACTLY ONE UTXO with the `VN_Deposit` flag set.
* The transaction MUST spend the previous VN Deposit UTXO for this VN.
* This UTXO MUST also:
  * Set a time lock for AT LEAST 6 months (or equivalent block periods)
  * Provide the _value_ of the transaction in the signature metadata
  * Provide the _public key_ for the spending key for the output in the signature metadata
* This UTXO MUST also store

>   * The value of the VN collateral UTXO in as a u64.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * The value of the VN deposit UTXO as a u64.
```
